This is the documentation of my process working on “some teams”.

First, I decided to import the data we would use and tried to push it to this repo using the command line. I decided to try and use the command line whenever I needed to push anything to GitHub throughout the project. The first (two) files I pushed to GitHub were test pushes.

Thereafter I decided to add the full structure of the project. I started by adding all the .php files (except data, I didn’t realize that I needed a data.php file at first) that I would need for the project. I split the head of an HTML file into the “head.php”-file and added comments about what the other files were going to contain. I required the “head.php”-file at the top of the “index.php”-file Then I pushed them to GitHub.

My next push included the Style.css file, totalTeams.php file as well as the data.php file. I had started working on the “totalTeams”-file, the file that should display the total number of teams found in the data. To do this I decided to create a new variable, “$totalTeams”, that contained a count-function that counted the number of teams in the “$teams”-variable. Thereafter I echoed $totalTeams after an h3-tag that said “Number of Teams:”, to display the amount of teams that the count-function had counted. This was my fourth push.

In the “table.php”-file, I created a test version of the table, just to see what it would look like and to understand how my code would translate visually. I required the “styles.css”-file and assigned a random colour to different parts of the table, just to see how it would look (you can tell I had already assigned the colours in the previous push). After a lot of web searching, I figured out a way to echo the unique cities in the “uniqueCities.php”-file. To get access to all the “city” values within the array I used the function “array_column” and stored them in a variable called “$cityValues”. Then, I used “array_unique” to fetch all the unique cities from “$cityValues” and stored them in a variable called “$uniqueCities”. Thereafter I echoed “$uniqueCities” with the help of the function “implode”. Since I can’t echo arrays, implode proved itself useful because it returns a string representation of the array. That way, I could print the array in the variable “$uniqueCities”.

The next push included changes to the “table.php”-file. This took some work because I didn’t quite understand how to loop through the information so that it suited the <td>- and <tr>-tags. At first, all the information was put into rows instead of columns, which made the titles (<th>) not match the information in the column underneath. This error occurred because I initially added a <tr> to each new element of the loop whilst looping through the array. After hours of struggle, google searches, and trial and error, the table finally looked as it should with every category of information (e.g. all cities) displayed in columns instead of rows. To solve my issue, I just needed to wrap the loop within a single <tr>-tag but keep the <td>-tags within every new element of the loop. Above the loop, I hard-coded the titles of each category within <th> tags within a <tr>-tag wrapping them.
As for the loop, I used a foreach loop where I counted the items in each array using ($teams as $key => $team) and echoed all the categories within a <td>tag each (e.g. echo $team[“city”]). Some items in the array didn’t have a value (e.g. not every team had a nickname), whilst others had the string value “null”. These initially didn’t show up in the table. To solve this I used two different if-statements. To solve the issue where the array didn’t have a value, I used the isset-function to check if the value was null ( if (isset($team["nickname"]) == "false")) and if the value was null, the condition was to echo “n/a”. For the issue with the null-value, I didn’t need an isset-function. I just wrote the following:
if ($team["last-time-champions"] === null)and the condition was to echo “n/a” there too. Then, it printed “n/a” in all the corresponding slots in the table.

In the final push (before pushing the “read me”-file), I added some CSS to the project. I didn’t put too much time into the CSS, but I chose some colours I liked, centred the content and made the table borders white. Just to make it look a little prettier. I hade to make an extra push to fix minor faults in the file, like the "city"-header being where "last time champions" should be.

lastly, l pushed general changes (small changes in the format) as well as a README.md-file., .prettierrc-file and a Licence.md file.
